#title News
#lang en

This is the homepage for [[/special/about][amusewiki]], a library-oriented wiki engine.

AmuseWiki is going to be presented to the Perl community at [[http://act.yapc.eu/ye2015/talk/6056][YAPC::Europe]] in Granada. See you there :-)

The [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/archive/v_1.32.tar.gz][latest version is 1.32]] and can be downloaded at [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki][github]].

This page lists the visible changes. For upgrade instructions, please
consult the [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/blob/master/Changes][=Changes=]] file in the root of the distribution.

*** Version 1.31 (2015-07-24) and 1.32 (2015-08-26)

 - Refactored nginx configuration generator.
 - Fix to mime type of text static files.
 - Updated translations: de.
 - Moved ckeditor configuration into a controller.
 - Use the CDN if ckeditor is not installed locally.
 - New script clone-site.pl, for import and export of site
   configurations across instances

Version 1.31 shouldn't be installed, it's a transitional one.

*** Version 1.30 (2015-07-24)

 - Integrated cgit into the layout.
 - Optional upgrade to cgit latest release (0.11.2)
 - Unified the installation scripts install-cgit.sh and generate-cgit-repolist.pl
 - Fixed bug in site creation hostname validation

This upgrade requires to reconfigure cgit and the webserver. See the
Changes file for the upgrade instructions.

*** Version 1.25 (2015-06-27)

 - Layout fix release. No code changes.
 - Upgraded to Bootstrap 3.3.5 (latest), including CSS, JS, Glyphicons
 - Leveraged the glyphicons for the ToC toggler and navbar items
 - Improved navbar responsiveness


*** Version 1.24 (2015-06-20)

 - Added polish language support (no translation in for now). For this
   an upgrade of Text::Amuse is required.

 - Before returning a 404 in a catchall route, look at the first
   fragment of the path and lookup texts, categories and aliases for
   the uri, redirecting there if found

*** Version 1.23 (2015-06-07)

 - Fixed crash introduced by buggy 1.22 (when special pages are
   present). This case was not caught by the test suite. (Now it is).

*** Version 1.22 (2015-06-06)

 - Make possible to librarians to list and display deferred texts
 - Updated translations: it


*** Version 1.21 (2015-05-15)

 - Added LuaLaTeX option (slow and experimental)

*** Version 1.20 (2015-05-14)

 - Changed /topics and /authors to /category/topic/ and /category/author and left
   permanent redirections behind

 - Added category description with editor (using muse markup, of course)

*** Version 1.14 (2015-04-30)

 - New option to add a HTML snippet to special pages
 - New option to add arbitrary links in the “More” bar

*** Version 1.12 (2015-04-23)

 - Added utils/import path to import chunks of HTML
 - Updated po files and italian translation


*** Version 1.11 (2015-04-19)

 - Added new option to trigger the paginator in /archive and /archive/<lang>
 - Adjust the paginator according to the locale collation (diacritics, etc.)
 - Show the number of text in /archive and /archive/<lang>

*** Version 1.10 (2015-04-12)

 - Fixed multilang bug when the uri got the language prefix appended
   at each request on /new, so uri already taken generated something
   like uri-it-it-it.
 - Fixed missing category text count update on text deletion.
 - Fixed autocompletion api to return only used categories.

*** Version 1.09 (2015-04-08)

 - Prerequisite upgrade to fix some corner-case rendering errors
   [[https://metacpan.org/pod/Text::Amuse::Compile][Text::Amuse]]
 - Documentation

*** Version 1.08 (2015-03-22)

 - Added private site type, where only users have access.
 - Fixed crash on Xapian stemmer where site language is italian
 - Fixed crash when the supplied lexicon.json is invalid
 - Integrated lexicon.json in the localization plugin
 - Adjusted text’s preamble

*** Version 1.07 (2015-02-27)

 - Fixed leaked template in the static indexes

This version only correct this bug. This caused the embedded CSS of
the static indexes (which are used only for static mirroring or
archive bundles) to break.

*** Version 1.06 (2015-02-21)

 - Added EPUB output to Bookbuilder
 - Added font embedding option to Bookbuilder’s EPUBs
 - Added user administration (only for root users)

*** Version 1.05 (2015-02-07)

 - Added “opening” option to the site and bookbuilder options. It
   controls the page the chapters should start (right page or any
   page).
 - Updated translations: it, hr.
 - Safe old revision (published) and job (completed) purging.
   Revisions and jobs older than 1 month will get be purged from the
   database and the associated files removed. Of course, this doesn’t
   mean that the texts themselves are removed, just the revision.

This version also uses the latest
[[https://metacpan.org/pod/Text::Amuse::Compile][Text::Amuse]] stack,
which introduces support for the #hyphenation header tag, so bad hyphenations can be corrected from within the document.


*** Version 1.04 (2015-01-08)

 - Updated translations: ru, mk
 - Job page will show the queue, if any
 - Fixed bug with category’s names being stuck on the first-come

*** Version 1.03 (2014-12-07)

 - Added 4UP imposition schema to the bookbuilder.
 - Added 9pt to the bookbuilder options.
 - Display the current cover image in the bookbuilder, if uploaded.
 - Fixed a crash which happened in some corner case.
 - Added sorting to topics and authors pages.

*** Version 1.02 (2014-11-26)

 - Added swedish translations
 - Added sans fonts to the bookbuilder
 - Improved language setting (html header and new texts) for multilanguage
 - Added option to set the number of RSS and on the latest entry menu
 - Added toggler for cover upload’s options on the bookbuilder

*** Version 1.01 (2014-11-20)

This version bumps up the prerequisites =Text::Amuse= and
=Text::Amuse::Preprocessor=, which have to be upgraded.

 - Added swedish support
 - Fixed js diff script
 - Fixed bug with URIs overflowing because of multichar replacements
 - Require (client-side only) a username for anonymous commits
 - Updated schema images
 - Added a command-line fetcher to keep different sites synced

*** Version 1.00 (2014-10-22)

First stable (or kind of stable) release.



