#pubdate 2018-02-19
#title Version 2.1
#date 2018-02-19
#teaser Fine tuning of produced downloads, search engines optimization, parallel PDF compilation, secondary footnotes, improved editing user interface
#cat releases
#lang en

The 2.1 series does not bring any incompatibility or upgrade issues
from the 2.0 series.

*** 2.102 2018-02-19

 - Minor fix dependencies in debian packages (ghostscript was missing)
 - Added texts sorting by number of pages
 - Enforce weak etags for files served by the application

*** 2.101 2018-02-10

 - Improved (again) editing UI for image uploads
 - migrate sessions backend from fastmmap to database

The session migration is handled automatically on upgrade. The
procedure has been tested and saves a copy of the current session
storage.

Worst case scenario, your uses will be logged out. If this happens,
please report it ASAP (but shouldn't happen).

*** 2.100 2018-02-03

 - Improved editing UI: batch file upload and ajax preview.

*** 2.099 2018-01-27

 - Updated i18n: ru, it, hr
 - Documentation fixes
 - Upgraded Text::Amuse version to interpret =<code>= as verbatim

This release changes the behaviour of the =<code>= and
<verbatim>=code=</verbatim> tag which are now verbatim ones.

To ensure some degree of backcompatibility, if =<verbatim>= is found
inside a tag, a warning is issued.

=<code><verbatim>Material</verbatim></code>= is also considered as the
same way as <code>=Material=</code>.


*** 2.098 2017-12-29

 - Add BB/CF option start_with_empty_page
 - Localization updates: it, hr (complete)

*** 2.096 2017-12-27

 - Localization updates: fr, ru, de

 - Upgraded the =Text::Amuse= stack, bringing secondary footnotes, <verbatim>~~</verbatim> as
   visible no-break space in the muse document

 - New editing option: show_nbsp (turning the =a0= character into <verbatim>~~</verbatim>)

 - New CF/BB options: prevent the use of bold fonts in PDFs and
   alternate secondary footnote style (per-page and alpha)
 

*** 2.095 2017-11-25

 - Adjusted mailing localization and wording ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/163][#163]] [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/155][#155]]). Thanks to
   racke to point that out.
 - Opt-out for teaser and cover in the listings ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/170][#170]])
 - Minor fix to the layout for search results ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/168][#168]])
 - Give access to the site's jobs console to admins ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/169][#169]])
 - Improve customization of navbar links ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/167][#167]])

**Incompatible change:** if you used the configuration file to set the
SMTP parameters, you need to upgrade the setup.

You need to set the desired parameter as environment variable (in the
systemd unit file or in the user starting the application). See
[[https://metacpan.org/pod/Email::Sender::Manual::QuickStart]] and
[[https://metacpan.org/pod/Email::Sender::Transport::SMTP]] for details.

If you use systemd (or the application was installed via debian
package), you need to tweak the local unit files to set the
environment variables.

Example:

{{{
$ export EMAIL_SENDER_TRANSPORT=SMTP
$ export EMAIL_SENDER_TRANSPORT_host=smtp.example.com
$ export EMAIL_SENDER_TRANSPORT_port=2525
./init-all.sh restart
}}}

*** 2.094 2017-11-06

 - Adjust the jobber behaviour to be more aggressive but not too much ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/162][#162]])
 - Documentation fixes
 - Tentative fix for debian-specific amusewiki script on restart

*** 2.093 2017-11-04

 - SEO improvements: noindex on generated files, sitelink searchbox,
   allow /search access to robots.

*** 2.092 2017-11-04

 - Fix jobber startup in thumbnail population, preventing thumbnails
   to be fully populated.

*** 2.091 2017-11-04

 - Add /remote/create API route ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/158][#158]])

*** 2.090 2017-11-03

 - Improve OpenGraph support ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/145][#145]], [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/150][#150]])
 - Add /library/*/embed route suitable for external iframes ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/154][#154]])
 - Adjusted scheduling of job purging (keep bookbuilder files 1 year) ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/147][#147]])
 - Turn PDFs into custom formats (allowing fine-tuning) ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/140][#140]])
 - Turn slow PDF compilations into async and parallelized job ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/140][#140]])

