#pubdate 2018-08-16
#title Version 2.2
#date 2018-08-16
#teaser Faceted search, mirroring with =/mirror.txt=, improved anchors (Emacs Muse compatibility)
#cat releases

*** 2.226 2018-08-16

 - Expose the legacy links via /api/legacy-links (#205)
 - Show the git log when pulling (#207)

*** 2.225 2018-07-29

 - Improve category sorting (take numbers in account)

*** 2.224 2018-07-28

 - Dependencies bump with RTL support in the parser
 - Update the wordpress import script

*** 2.223 2018-07-20

 - New Bookbuilder/custom format options: centerchapter, centersection,
   continuefootnotes
 - Respect the default sorting setting in static indexes

*** 2.222 2018-07-04

 - Add Bahasa Indonesia support
 - AMW-Meta: RSS feeds, avoid use of the DB
 - Mirror script: port to perl and speed up

*** 2.221 2018-06-10

 - Add nl tranlations

*** 2.220 2018-05-13

 - Add empty localization for Turkish language
 - Add new imposition schema: 2x4x1 (via upgraded PDF::Imposition)
 - Provide a disabled and not yet documented application to provide
   an aggregated search of a given set of amusewiki sites residing on
   the same server

*** 2.210 2018-05-03

 - Various fixes and optimizations on mirror routes and Xapian

*** 2.203 2018-04-23

 - Bump dependency on Text::Amuse 1.10 with improved anchors and
   restored compatibility with Emacs Muse
 - Improve anchor display on editing and preview

*** 2.202 2018-03-31

 - Bump dependency on Text::Amuse 1.01 and Text::Amuse::Compile 1.04
 - Do not list ignored files in /mirror.txt
 - Debian: install a disabled fontconfig setting for woff fonts
 - Optimize static indexes
 - Use option restrict_mirror to disable mirroring
 - Update ru i18n (thanks @labdsf)

*** 2.201 2018-03-27

 - Bump dependency on Text::Amuse 1.00 and Text::Amuse::Compile 1.03
 - Fix secondary footnotes CSS

With Text::Amuse::Compile 1.03, a relatively recent =bigfoot.sty=
version is needed for the LaTeX compiler. If your installation is
missing it (notably jessie, stretch is fine), you can install it as
the user running the amusewiki instance with the following commands:

{{{
   $ cd /tmp/
   $ mkdir -p `kpsewhich -var-value TEXMFHOME`/tex/latex/bigfoot
   $ wget http://mirrors.ctan.org/macros/latex/contrib/bigfoot.zip
   $ unzip bigfoot.zip
   $ cd bigfoot
   $ make
   $ mv *.sty `kpsewhich -var-value TEXMFHOME`/tex/latex/bigfoot
   $ texhash `kpsewhich -var-value TEXMFHOME`
}}}

*** 2.200 2018-03-20

 - Refactored the search page, using facets now
 - Updated ru (thanks @labdsf), it and hr translations, add cs
   preliminary support
 - serve a list of urls to mirror under =/mirror.txt= and =/mirror.ts.txt=
   to feed wget with it. Plus provided a client in
   =script/mirror-site.sh=

This version brings a refactored, faceted search page. To get the
facets working, you need a =Search::Xapian= module newer then 1.2.22.0.
Notably, Debian jessie has a 1.2.19.0. Another problem is that the
current 1.2.25.0 version on CPAN fails to install using Xapian system
libraries in the 1.2 branch (I believe the issue, a single test
failing, will be addressed in the next =Search::Xapian= release).

Please note that without satisfying this dependency, Amusewiki will
still work without problems. You are just going to miss a nice
feature.

There are 4 cases here:

 - Debian stretch, Amusewiki installed with deb package: works out of
   the box.

 - Recent distro, with Xapian (system library) > 1.4, and Amusewiki
   installed from git. It could already work out of the box. If not
   so, upgrading =Search::Xapian= from CPAN (e.g. =cpanm Search::Xapian=)
   will do.

 - Older distro (with Xapian system library 1.2) and Amusewiki
   installed with git: you need to install =Search::Xapian= from CPAN.
   If it refuses to install because of a single test failing, force
   the installation skipping the tests =cpanm -f Search::Xapian=. I
   asked the upstream, and they confirmed it's harmless.

 - Debian jessie, Amusewiki installed with deb package: you need to
   build a recent =Search::Xapian.= You can install it from CPAN
   system-wide, but it has the downside of making your system dirty,
   so it's not recommended. Instead, you could build a deb package
   with the following procedure (the =libsearch-xapian-perl= sources
   are provided as courtesy for this case, incorporating the needed
   patch) and install the resulting deb (as root) in the parent
   directory.

{{{
   # apt-get install libdevel-leak-perl libtest-pod-perl devscripts \
                     build-essential fakeroot libxapian-dev
   $ git clone https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki-debian-packages.git
   $ cd amusewiki-debian-packages/libsearch-xapian-perl-1.2.24.0/
   $ debuild -i -us -uc -b
}}}

