#title Version 2.5
#teaser  **Security fix for untrusted remote repository (2021-06-05)**. File inclusion in Muse documents, extended API, configurable web chat, theme switcher, custom pages under =/p/=, language-specific fonts, OAI-PMH implementation, RTL support, annotations, collections, series and aggregations, bookcovers!
#cat releases

** Overview

The 2.5 series brings in file inclusion in Muse documents, which is
detailed in [[/library/file-inclusion][its own page]].

There are no upgrade or backcompatibility issues.

** Changes

*** 2.599 2024-05-25

 - Add hungarian (hu) i18n. Thanks to @zsolt-beringer

*** 2.598 2024-04-30

 - Fix OAI-PMH aggregation handling, which was generating too much
   bumping.

*** 2.597 2024-04-04

 - Fix JS breakage on newtext because of select2 library not loaded.
 - Updated eu localization. Thanks to @a-mento

*** 2.596 2024-02-12

 - Add basque (eu) i18n. Thanks to @a-mento

*** 2.595 2024-02-10

 - Fix crash in OAI-PMH with Marc21 and hard-deleted entry.

*** 2.594 2024-02-06

 - Keep the collections items ordered as the user defined them
 - Remove the order number input in the aggregation widgets (that
   should be done with the drag&drop in the parent)

*** 2.593 2024-02-01

 - Keep the bookcover template tokens sorted
 - Add descriptions to aggregations and series
 - Add uri checker for collections
 - Random fixes

*** 2.592 2024-01-31

 - Fix breakage in bookcovers when installed via .deb

*** 2.591 2024-01-31

 - New feature: bookcovers. This is the companion for the bookbuilder.
   See /bookcovers as starting point.


*** 2.590 2024-01-25

 - New features: aggregations and series (anthologies and periodical).
   See =/aggregate/manage=.
 - Improved collections (previously known as nodes)
 - Create an authorization mechanism for IP, so scripts can access
   =/git= and private sites. See (=/console/git=)
 - Changed default for cgit public interface to false. This option is
   now reserved for root users
 - i18n: uk (thanks to @nykula)
 - Fix jumpy navbar in some mobile browsers (thanks to @nykula)


*** 2.583 2024-01-01

 - Expose the format definitions to the API
 - Serve the .bare.html file if requested

*** 2.582 2023-12-16

 - i18n: tr (updated)
 - Add function to send mails from the site under site-admin/send-email
 - Add Bump Pubdate function (#450)

*** 2.581 2023-10-21

 - improve OAI-PMH's MARC21 output with more data (notably uri, label
   and content type)

 - on annotation and collection changes, bump the relevant records for
   incremental harvesting

*** 2.580 2023-10-18

 - i18n: tr (updated)
 - Improve UI for federation: allow multiple urls by pasting

*** 2.579 2023-10-04

 - i18n: tr (updated)

 - Implement OAI-ORE aggregations in RDF file. This is somehow
   experimental and unclear if it's actually useful and/or if it's
   been correctly implemented, so it's EXPERIMENTAL.

 - Implement text annotations. These values which you don't want to go
   into the muse file, so they excluded from the git. Possible use
   cases: large scan files used as working copies, physical book
   location, comments. If marked as active and public, the annotations
   (excluding the files) are exposed via OAI-PMH.

*** 2.578 2023-08-31

 - i18n: add initial support for uk
 - oai-pmh: expose the categories


*** 2.577 2023-07-24

 - Rename in the front-end the "nodes" to "collections". URLs and
   table names are intact.
 - Expose the nodes/collections as OAI-PMH sets

*** 2.576 2023-07-14

 - Add initial RTL support
 - Add Farsi i18n

*** 2.575 2023-06-25

 - OAI-PMH: add a "web" set and serve marc21 for GetRecord call as well

*** 2.574 2023-06-02

 - Upgraded jquery to latest
 - Upgraded jquery-ui to latest
 - Implement MARCXML output for AOI-PMH. The AOI-PMH feature is still
   experimental
 - Upgraded TeXlive! script
 - Updated installation scripts for fonts and js

*** 2.573 2023-05-29

 - Implement attachment pruning
 - i18n: cs (updated)
 - minor corrections to AOI-PMH code

*** 2.572 2023-05-17

 - Optimization for the OAI-PMH update run, which was too slow.

*** 2.570 2023-05-16

 - Implement the OAI-PMH protocol at /oai-pmh

*** 2.566 2023-05-06

 - I18N: tr (updated)
 - Try to address the content jumping when the navbar becomes fixed

*** 2.565 2023-03-20

 - Save the images' =alt_text= on site serialization.

*** 2.564 2023-03-20

 - Make the language selection explicit in the user preferences. So
   far it was a side effect of changing the site locale via the
   language selector.

*** 2.563 2023-02-19

 - Display an icon if the attachment thumbnail generation failed ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/422][GH#422]])
 - Autoimport site_files/autoimport/{categories,legacy_links}.yml if found
 - Add alternate Wordpress importer


*** 2.562 2022-12-04

 - I18N: ro (new)
 - Add missing font preview ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/403][GH#403]])
 - Support images' alt text via ajax call ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/421][GH#421]])

*** 2.561 2022-11-05

 - I18N: cs (new), tr (updated)
 - Improve enclosure handling for RSS, OPDS, static indexes
 - Minor adjustments for custom categories
 - Support navlog-alt.png and local-alt.css for theming
 - New option to enforce the email on submission
 - Support =#formats none= in the header


*** 2.560 2022-09-24

 - Extend the custom categories with new option. Include them in
   Xapian facets, in the creation form, in the colophon.
 - Improve preview on edit with all the relevant fields
 - Honor the pubdate in the RSS for special pages
 - Add kmr localization support
 - Updated it and tr i18n

*** 2.551 2022-05-14

 - New "body only" option for custom formats and bookbuilder

*** 2.550 2022-05-07

 - Correct text/categories redirection status code (make them permanent)
 - Add URI preview on text creation  ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/392][GH#392]])
 - Add URI rename function ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/392][GH#392]])


*** 2.545 2022-04-22

 - Fix puzzling crashes on attachment list, federation page and
   pending revisions.
 - Implement login by email instead of username (transparent)
 - Add option to enforce manual URI 

*** 2.544 2022-03-29

 - Update tr and ja i18n.
 - Bump parser and compiler for =<ruby>= support

*** 2.543 2022-03-26

 - Improve check on #title upon submitting
 - Fix startup crash on older distributions ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/389][GH#389]])


*** 2.542 2022-03-19

 - Remove crawlable OPDS page. This is huge performance and bandwith
   waste.

 - Optimize the static indexes production. This will let datatable do
   the actual table rendering while the app will just provide the JSON
   data with some predigested HTML. The gain is huge.

 - Remove the asciified indexing in Xapian. Doing this unconditionally
   is a mistake. To be restored for selected languages only, in case.

*** 2.541 2022-03-12

 - Update ja i18n
 - Optimization for large sites

*** 2.540 2022-03-05

 - Add federation feature [EXPERIMENTAL]

*** 2.535 2022-02-26

 - Add paragraph indentation option to custom formats and bookbuilder
 - Enable ceb and tl languages

*** 2.534 2022-02-12

 - Bump prerequisites: require amusewiki-texlive
 - Migrate from polyglossia to babel via
   Text::Amuse/Text::Amuse::Compile, greatly extending the supported
   languages.
 - Add option to use Unicode category names. This should be used when
   the ASCII category names are not accurate (notably Japanese)
 - Implement language setting for [[/library/custom-fonts][fonts]]

*** 2.533 2021-12-24

 - Add proper links to =/console/git-fine-diff=
 - Add Chinese i18n (without =Text::Amuse= support)

*** 2.532 2021-12-19

 - Add a new route =/console/git-fine-diff= do compare given commits on
   a file.

*** 2.531 2021-11-21

 - Always provide an https:// site. This aligns the behavior to the
   expected one. Now "Use SSL for authenticated users" means exactly
   that, i.e. redirect login and authenticated users to https, while
   so far disabling that would have prevented https altogether.
   ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/385][GH#385]])


*** 2.530 2021-11-20

 - Add linespacing PDF option (via Text::Amuse::Compile bump)
 - Exclude pseudo TLD from Let's Encrypt renewals [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/385][GH#385]]
 - Add Esperanto i18n

*** 2.522 2021-10-22

 - New theme, =amusebaskerville=

*** 2.521 2021-10-10

 - Fix =/api/latest= missing critical key
 - Fix =/p/xxx= sitemap and robots

*** 2.520 2021-10-10

 - Add experimental routes =p/xxx= mapping to =repo/site_files/public/xxx= to
   build arbitrary custom pages.
 - add =/api/latest= exposing the title info as JSON


*** 2.519 (2021-08-04)

 - Deny access to git pull logs to anonymous users. This fixes a
   potential information disclosure (git logs) when using the
   pulling with a system user. **[SECURITY]**

*** 2.518 (2021-08-03)

 - Fix theme-switcher persistence for non-logged in (reported by
   =anelki= on the =#amusewiki= channel)

*** 2.517 (2021-08-02)

 - Fix crash on debian package when temporary process is gone ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/373][GH#373]])
 - Increase paper size values
 - Prevent db insertion crash on #uid too long ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/376][GH#376]])
 - New restricted option preventing redirection on aliases to canonical ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/377][GH#377]])
 - New restricted option to inject nginx configuration snippets into site stanza ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/378][GH#378]])
 - Theme switcher (dark/light toggler) ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/379][GH#379]])


*** 2.516 (2021-06-19)

 - Display the fail details on compilation failure
   ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/371][GH#371]])
 - Support arbitrary margin in the bookbuilder
   ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/372][GH#372]])
 - Update texlive install script for TeXlive! 2021

*** 2.515 (2021-06-05)

 - **[SECURITY]** When pulling a remote git, remove symlinks pointing
   outside the tree. This is a security patch against potential
   symlink-based attacks coming from remote repository, tricking the
   application to access files outside the site root.

   To be exploited, the flaw, fixed in this release, requires a
   malicious or naive site administrator pulling from a malicious
   repository.

 - Serve symlinks if they point inside the tree.

 - New option to toggle the display of latest entries on special pages


*** 2.514 (2021-05-23)

 - Fix bug with links which URI doesn't understand (reported by
   =anelki= on the =#amusewiki= channel)


*** 2.513 (2021-05-21)

 - Do not rely on Freenode for the webchat. Instead, make the iframe
   url editable. Nothing by default. The iframe with the webchat
   didn't seem to work anyway. At some point it stopped working. If
   you set a webchat url, the link to the page with the embedded
   iframe will always appear in the dropdown menu. On the other hand,
   the default with the =#amusewiki= channel has been removed. Site
   admins need to find and set one.
 - Update i18n strings
 - AMW-Meta: Implement OPDS

*** 2.512 (2021-04-25)

 - Update i18n: el
 - Refresh the shared repo's hook when the site is reconfigured

*** 2.511 (2021-04-11)

 - Add Greek I18N
 - Do not trigger Xapian suggestions if not enabled ([[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/366][GH#366]])

*** 2.510 (2021-04-05)

 - Add support for images in the API
 - Add option to keep the layout always fluid
 - Update I18N: RU (thanks to @link2xt)
 - Carry on ETag and X-Robots-Tag when serving static files from nginx

*** 2.509 (2021-02-27)

 - Return 410 when the text is deleted without a redirection.
 - Add /remote/edit/library/xxx and /remote/edit/special/xxx
   to API


*** 2.508 (2021-02-14)

 - Support =sc= and =sf= inline tags via new =Text::Amuse=

*** 2.507 (2021-01-14)

 - Store and display isbn, publisher, series info, copyright info if
   provided by the muse document. These fields are documented and
   display in the generated formats, but were not in the web app.

*** 2.506 (2021-01-06)

 - Save instructions to compile a format into the site repo under =bin=
 - Add function to check mailing
 - Add new imposition schema =duplex2up= (=2up= variant)
 - Make =Authen::SASL= a requirement (for SMTP)


*** 2.505 (2020-12-15)

 - Fix an old bug with the amusewiki restart command not killing the
   children.
 - Improve logging for the =/git= route
 - Improve sorting for revisions page
 - Add pagination to OPDS category routes (and added custom categories)
 - Cache =/opds/crawlable= which was too slow
 - Updated I18N: PL

*** 2.504 (2020-11-05)

 - Updated i18n: BG

*** 2.503 (2020-11-05)

 - Fix support for BG.

*** 2.502 (2020-11-05)

 - Updated i18n (added BG)

*** 2.501 (2020-10-29)

 - Fix access permissions to whitelisted IPs to =/git= and =/mirror=


*** 2.500 (2020-10-28)

 - Support file inclusion [[https://github.com/melmothx/amusewiki/issues/53][GH#53]])
