#pubdate 2019-07-12
#title Version 2.3
#date 2019-07-12
#teaser Search suggestions (did you mean?), category manager, improvements to the build system (=carton=, =vagrant=)
#cat releases

*** 2.331 2019-07-12

 - Handle Pg listening on 5433 instead of 5432 (debian packaging)
 - Fix the query params for the freenode webchat (they moved from
   qwebirc to Kiwi IRC).
 - Symlink system wide fontspec.json if found installed
 - Display the --ttdir argument for muse-compiler.pl


*** 2.330 2019-05-26

 - RSS optimization
 - Improve layout of text creation screen (thanks @link2xt)
 - Remove unneeded js libraries (validate and datepicker)
 - Show CLI arguments for muse-compile on the bookbuilder and custom
   format pages
 - Let search engines ignore the generated formats
 - Do not rely on CDN for amusewiki-branded bootstrap themes
 - Add a couple of new CSS themes which previously didn't compile
 - Add button to clone the custom formats
 - Translations: use site translation for topics, not the global lexicon.
 - Improve handling of images upload errors
 - Install scripts: install TeXlive 2019 and fallback to cpanm if
   carton fails


*** 2.324 2019-03-19 (Spring equinox version)

 - Switch to =carton= for dependencies tracking (@link2xt)
 - Fix bookbuilder bug on centersection/centerchapter
 - Add a layout template slot for copyright/licence notices
 - Update/check/refresh install scripts

*** 2.323 2019-02-17

 - Fix mirror CSS broken by forkawesome migration

*** 2.322 2019-02-16

 - Update ru translations (@link2xt)
 - Update Vagrantfile and build system (@link2xt)
 - Show number of pending revisions in the navbar (@link2xt)
 - Notify when a text status changes. This could be noisy.
 - Add PT localization
 - Handle FR formatting
 - Migrate to ForkAwesome instead of FontAwesome (includes new EPUB
   icon)

*** 2.320 2018-11-24

 - Update ru.po, many thanks to @link2xt and @kabanoid
 - Add Vagrantfile for quick hacking setup (@link2xt)
 - Style improvements with Font Awesome (@link2xt)
 - New bookbuilder options (typearea, tolerances)
 - Fixed a couple of accessibility glitches
 - Enhanced search suggestions
 - Live job monitor (for root users)
 - Fix redundant job scheduling in some corner cases


*** 2.311 2018-10-27

 - Fix encoding of Git::Wrapper output.
 - Update ru.po (@link2xt)

*** 2.310 2018-10-21

 - Fix the "title" table to work nice when MySQL is in strict mode,
   permitting NULLs and removing the default value. Tests pass. We
   already populate those values in code.
 - Log the output of create-doc-site, so if buried, the user can
   inspect it.

*** 2.300 2018-09-22

 - Replace GraphicsMagick with Imager module
 - Add category manager page (can set some author/topic to inactive,
   hiding it)
 - Add a simple JS RSS aggregator (it needs an upstream with CORS,
   like amusewiki sites)
 - Add autocomplete on the layout search box
 - Add spelling corrections on search
 - Add the apple-touch-icon (using the opengraph.png file).

After a lot of wondering, the system call to GraphicsMagick have been
removed. GM is probably safer than IM, but on the other hand it has
too many features which we don't need and a larger attack surface.
Plus working with a module is more flexible than shelling out.

The PDF thumbnailing is now a call to Ghostscript (which is what GM
was doing anyway).

However, the Imager module requires system libraries to be installed
properly. There is a check on startup to assert you're covered.
Otherwise refer to
[[https://metacpan.org/pod/distribution/Imager/lib/Imager/Install.pod][Imager::Install]]
if in doubt.

