#pubdate 2017-12-28 08:40:13 +0100
#title Offline tools
#lang en
#topics howto, doc
#teaser Installation and explanation of the Text::Amuse tools

Amusewiki stores its files in a plain text lightweight format called
Emacs Muse (actually a dialect of it) and described in depth in the
[[https://amusewiki.org/library/manual][manual]]. Such files are
always listed in the infobox with the downloads and are labelled as
“plain text source” and have a =.muse= extension. The same file is
also bundled in the =.zip=, which also gives you the eventual
attachments.

The format is not couple with the web application, and you can produce
PDF, EPUB, HTML files from Muse files locally.

** Installation

The tools are written in Perl. Every GNU/Linux operating system comes
with Perl installed. They are supposed to work on Mac and Windows too,
but you have to find your way to get Perl installed (together with a
way to install modules from CPAN, the repository of Perl code, usually
the program called =App::cpanminus=, which is invoked with the command
=cpanm=).

Also, if you want (and you probably want) to produce PDF, you need the
installation of a recent [[http://tug.org/texlive/][TeX Live distribution]].

*** Debian and Ubuntu

The parser, the compiler and the preprocessor are packaged for Debian.
So you could do:

{{{
# add the key
wget -O - https://packages.amusewiki.org/amusewiki.gpg.key | apt-key add -
# add a source list entry
echo 'deb http://packages.amusewiki.org/debian jessie main' > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/amusewiki.list
# install the tools
apt-get install libtext-amuse-perl libtext-amuse-preprocessor-perl libtext-amuse-compile-perl
}}}

TeX Live will be pulled in as dependency.

*** Manually

Install TeX Live following the instructions in the
[[http://tug.org/texlive/][TeX Live homepage]].

Install the Perl modules from CPAN:

{{{
cpanm Text::Amuse::Compile Text::Amuse::Preprocessor
}}}

** Usage

One way or another, you should have the executable files
=muse-compile.pl= and =muse-preprocessor.pl= installed.

{{{
which muse-preprocessor.pl                                                                     │
# /usr/bin/muse-preprocessor.pl
which muse-compile.pl
# /usr/bin/muse-compile.pl
}}}

Typical usage:

{{{
# download the manual to use as sample. Please note the .zip
# extension, so we get the attachments as well.
wget https://amusewiki.org/library/manual.zip
unzip manual.zip
cd manual
muse-compile.pl --help --verbose
muse-compile.pl --html --epub --pdf manual.muse
}}}

This command will produce HTML, EPUB and PDF files.

See =muse-compile.pl --help --verbose= for the full list.

The preprocessor is used if you need to cleanup your document. It has
the same options present in the editing amusewiki page.

{{{
muse-preprocessor.pl --help
muse-preprocessor.pl --inplace --show-nbsp --typography \
                     --links --footnotes manual.muse
}}}

See also [[https://amusewiki.org/library/working-with-footnotes][Working with footnotes]]
for an in-depth explanation of the =--footnotes= switch.

The preprocessor can also convert HTML pages to muse.

{{{
html-to-muse.pl https://packages.amusewiki.org/
}}}

See also [[https://pandoc.org/][Pandoc]] for the same functionality.
Additionally, with Pandoc you can import/export Muse files from and to
a very wide range of formats.
