#title Maintainer’s FAQ
#cat doc howto
#lang en
#pubdate 2014-11-25T09:38:43

*** How do I modify a special page?

It works the same as for regular page, but the link is hidden. Just
append =/edit= to the url of the page.

*** How do I create a special page?

Look into the account’s menu, there is an entry for that.

*** How do I create a landing page?

The page =/special/index= is twice special. It is assumed to be the
default page to visit when loading the site’s root.

If your site doesn’t have that, just create a special page and assign
the uri =index=.

If your site is multilanguage, you can create a language-specific
landing page creating, e.g. =/special/index-it=, i.e., the URI =index=, a
dash, and the locale code.

*** How do I delete a text?

Edit the text you want to *unpublish* and add this line to the header:

<example>
#DELETED Reason for deletion
</example>

You *have to* specify a reason, otherwise the line will have no effect.
The ordering of the header’s lines (where there is =#title=, =#lang=,
etc.) is irrelevant.

Then approve the change as it would be a normal publishing.

*** How do I purge a text?

Purging means removing it completely from the archive, not just hiding
it.

First you have to unpublish it via =#DELETED=. After the approval of the
change, it will appear under =/console/unpublished=. There is a big red
button for each deleted text, and you can proceed with the purging.


*** How do I redirect to another page?

Changing urls is a poor practice. Anyway, if you know what you’re
doing, you can delete an existing text and point to another adding a
=#DELETED= directive in the text header with a special syntax:

<example>
#DELETED Redirect: new-example-uri
</example>

Please note: without any prefix nor protocol, just the bare page name.
So if the full URL of the new text is
http://amusewiki.org/library/new-example-uri, you have just to put
=new-example-uri= in the header (as per the example above).

*** How do I create an introductory text for a topic or an author?

Visit the topic page and append =/edit= to the URL. Only logged in
librarian are able to do this.
