#title Rationale
#author Marco Pessotto
#subtitle Why another wiki engine?
#cat doc
#lang en
#pubdate 2014-11-03T00:00

*** Markup and formats

Apparently, the world is full of wiki engines, some of them good or
very good. So the question is if this particular engine was really
needed.

The problem AmuseWiki wants to address is, anyway, very practical. I
needed and wanted a decent range of output format. Not just a PDF
output (MediaWiki does that as well, for example), but a nice, good,
readable PDF. Now, given that the procedure needs to be completely
automated, the perfection is hardly reached, but we can do better than
simply render an HTML page and stuff the output in a PDF container.
TeX has been around more than 30 years by now. So the idea was of
course to use that.

Then I needed a markup, possibly an existing one. [[http://daringfireball.net/projects/markdown/syntax][Markdown]] was
considered, of course, but then discarded, because the original
specification didn't support footnotes, explicitly permitted random
inline HTML, and some other questionable (in my very humble opinion)
design choices. Creating another markdown dialect would have bring me
to square zero.

Given that I'm a Emacs user, I encountered [[http://mwolson.org/projects/EmacsMuse.html][Emacs Muse]] some years ago,
and I truly liked the syntax. By now the project is more or less
stalled, but the elisp code still works, is distributed in Debian, has
a nice manual, and provided a first reference implementation for the
output.

The other alternative would have been the [[http://orgmode.org][org-mode]] markup, but, beside
to be very large and complicated by lots of plugins that people would
expect to work, it have some (again) questionable markup elements for
things often used as quotations.

All considered, the muse markup was small, compact and expressive
enough for my needs. The bottom line is: every lightweight markup
needs something like a couple of minutes to be learned, so better
choose one I like, not the one everyone uses, and have a [[http://www.amusewiki.org/library/manual][manual]] for
that.

In turn, this could have been another questionable design choice, but
that's the upside of being the author of some software: you write it
your way.

The markup implementation was developed in Perl and is available on
[[https://metacpan.org/pod/Text::Amuse][CPAN]] as Text::Amuse. I added the "A" prefix because the markup is not
1:1 compatible with the original one.

Once the markup was able to produce HTML and TeX code, I needed
something to create the imposed versions of the PDF, i.e., a PDF file
which can be printed, folded and clipped to create booklets. During
the past years, I tried various different solutions, which worked (to
some extent), but weren't really satisfying. This resulted in
[[https://metacpan.org/release/PDF-Imposition][PDF::Imposition]], which so far appears to work well and is extensible
enough to accomodate any future need (being Perl code, and not an
hack).

I truly hate to read on screen. For the same reason, an EPUB output
would have been nice as well, and given that the HTML was already
there, a couple of CPAN modules were put together (notably Template
Toolkit and EBook::EPUB), and a module to wrap the pieces together on
the command line was created: [[https://metacpan.org/release/Text-Amuse-Compile][Text::Amuse::Compile]]. This code provides
also a command line utility to generate the formats on the command
line.

Last but not the least, experience showed that people are used to type
the character ="= and have it rendered as =“= depending on the position
and the language used. Same goes for the dash and other typographical
elements. Also, there was the need for some code capable (to some
extend) to take some HTML code and convert it into the markup. For
this I wrote the code that later became [[https://metacpan.org/pod/Text::Amuse::Preprocessor][Text::Amuse::Preprocessor]].

The modules above provide a way to work locally on the texts without
needing any access to the internet (they install the command line
scripts as well).

*** The web front-end

Sometimes writing Amusewiki itself felt like reinventing the wheel for
the n<sup>th</sup> time, so, while for the core modules I kept the
dependencies at the minimum, for the web pieces I used many available
modules on CPAN everywhere was possible.

The application itself is built on DBIx::Class, Catalyst and Template
Toolkit. The almost “standard” tools for web things written in Perl
out there. I considered Dancer as well, but given that the previous
incarnation of amusewiki used Dancer (and I had the feeling it was
already becoming too messy), I chose to jump on the catalyst train,
and I don't have any regret because it's really *elegant*.

A note about the database. I'm not a database fan. Actually, I don't
like them at all for managing texts. I think that the various
db-driven CMS out there are just doing the wrong thing, because
they're coupling the texts with the application.

For Amusewiki, being that it's archive- and library-oriented, I wanted
the texts stored in a directory tree under revision control. Given
that Git now is ubiquitous, choosing it was the easy part. Also, the
revision history and the possibility to have the archive distributed
and decentralized was just too good to be ignored.

To sum-up: the markup is decoupled by everything and can work
stand-alone on a single file or a whole tree. The archive is decoupled
by everything else and is just a git archive which follows some simple
directory-naming conventions.

The web application is then in charge to extract the relevant
information from the texts, store it into the database, keep them
up-to-date, and use it (hating databases doesn't mean I don't
recognize their usefulness when properly used -- it's just using them
as text archives that it's so bad).

DBIx::Class was handy to provide another layer of abstraction between
the web application itself and the archive, so the code could be
shared among the Catalyst part, and the back-end part (which compiles
the texts, updates the database and the git archive).

For the layout, which I admit was kind of hacked together by a
programmer (myself), not a designer, I went straight for bootstrap and
jquery and some other useful javascript libraries (many are used
around). It's not the best out there, but I feel that definitively I
could have done much worse.




