#title Migrations
#cat howto
#pubdate 2026-04-27
#teaser How to migrate one or more sites from an instance to another.

You should migrate one site at time. In this guide we assume that you
are using a Debian package, and we are going to migrate the
documentation site, with ID =amw=.

You can start with an =rsync= against the TeX assets, which is
unlikely to change much over the migration chore. You will need to
jump to the =amusewiki= user from time to time (such commands are
prefixed by =$=, while root one with =#=). [1]

[1] The =amusewiki= binary is just a wrapper to make sure you're using
    the correct user in the correct directory.

{{{
# amusewiki shell
$ mkdir -p /var/lib/amusewiki/texmf/tex/generic/amusewiki/data/
}}}


{{{
# rsync -avh \
      oldbox:/var/lib/amusewiki/texmf/tex/generic/amusewiki/data/ \
             /var/lib/amusewiki/texmf/tex/generic/amusewiki/data/
# amusewiki shell
$ texhash `kpsewhich -var-value TEXMFHOME`
}}}

You should also copy the SSL certificates over for the site you are migrating:

{{{
# rsync -avh root@oldbox:/var/lib/amusewiki/ssl/amusewiki.org/ /var/lib/amusewiki/ssl/amusewiki.org/
}}}

As root on the old box, produce the export file:

{{{
# amusewiki clone-site export --directory /tmp/export-sites-$(date -I) amw
}}}

Copy that over and import it.

{{{
# amusewiki clone-site import /tmp/export-sites-$(date -I)/amw.yaml
}}}

Now clone the Git repository in =/var/lib/amusewiki/repo/amw=,
previously removing the tree if needed, so the best option is using
=rsync= and will save you the regeneration of all the existing files.
Using =git clone= is another legitimate option, if you want to start
from scratch.

{{{
# rsync -avh --delete root@oldbox:/var/lib/amusewiki/repo/amw/ /var/lib/amusewiki/repo/amw/
}}}

Update the nginx configuration:

{{{
# amusewiki generate-nginx-conf
}}}

executing the commands it produces to update the nginx configuration.


Finally, under =screen= or =tmux= (as it could take long) run:

{{{
# amusewiki bootstap-archive amw
}}}

This will reindex the site and generate the generated files if missing.
